Introduction

In this lab, I tested two important user policies in my Active Directory environment:

Blocking access to the Control Panel

Forcing a desktop wallpaper using Group Policy

The goal was to understand how user-based policies work on a domain-joined Windows 10 client and how they affect users after login.

This testing was done inside my NK.local homelab environment.

Lab Setup

Domain: NK.local

Domain Controller: Windows Server

Client Machine: Windows 10 (joined to domain)

Tool used: Group Policy Management

The client machine was already connected to the domain before testing these policies.

🔒 Control Panel Restriction Test
What I Wanted to Do

I wanted to prevent domain users from accessing:

Control Panel

Windows Settings

This simulates a company setup where users are not allowed to change system settings.

How I Configured It

Inside Group Policy, I went to:

User Configuration → Administrative Templates → Control Panel

Then I enabled:

“Prohibit access to Control Panel and PC settings”

After enabling the policy, I made sure it was linked to the correct OU.

Testing on the Client

On the Windows 10 client machine:

I logged in as a domain user

Ran:

gpupdate /force


Tried opening Control Panel

Tried opening Settings

The system displayed a restriction message, and access was blocked successfully.

This confirmed the policy was working.

🖼️ Desktop Wallpaper Policy Test
What I Wanted to Do

I wanted to enforce a company-style wallpaper and prevent users from changing it.

How I Configured It

Inside Group Policy:

User Configuration → Administrative Templates → Desktop → Desktop

I enabled:

Desktop Wallpaper

Then I added the wallpaper path and selected the style (Fill).

After saving the policy, I ensured it was linked properly.

Testing on the Client

On the client machine:

I ran:

gpupdate /force


Logged out and logged back in

Checked if the wallpaper changed

Tried to manually change the background

The wallpaper was applied automatically, and I could not change it. The option was restricted.

This confirmed the policy was enforced correctly.

How I Verified the Policies

To confirm the policies were actually applied, I ran:

gpresult /r


This showed that the correct GPO was applied to the user.
