Introduction

In this lab, I set up a Windows 10 client machine and connected it to my NK.local Active Directory domain.

The goal of this project was to understand how client machines are configured in a domain environment and how they communicate with the Domain Controller and File Server.

This simulates how a company prepares a new employee computer before handing it over.

Lab Environment

Domain: NK.local

Domain Controller: Windows Server

Client Machine: Windows 10

Services Used:

Active Directory

DNS

Group Policy

File Server

What I Configured
1. Network Configuration

Before joining the domain, I configured the client’s network settings:

Assigned IP address (or used DHCP from server)

Set DNS server to the Domain Controller IP

Verified connectivity using:

ping server-ip


This step ensured the client could properly locate the domain.

2. Joined the Domain

I joined the client machine to:

NK.local


Steps performed:

Opened System Properties

Selected “Change settings”

Entered domain name

Provided domain administrator credentials

Restarted the machine

After reboot, I confirmed successful domain membership.

3. Verified Domain Login

On the login screen:

Selected “Other user”

Logged in using domain credentials:

NK\username


or

username@NK.local


This confirmed authentication through Active Directory.

4. Applied Group Policy

After login, I forced policy updates:

gpupdate /force


Then verified applied policies using:

gpresult /r


This confirmed the client was receiving domain policies correctly.

5. Verified Drive Mapping

Once logged in:

Confirmed mapped network drive appeared automatically

Verified access to shared folder

Tested file creation (based on permissions)

This ensured proper communication between:

Client → Domain Controller → File Server

What I Learned

Through this project, I learned:

The importance of DNS in domain environments

How domain authentication works

How Group Policy is applied to client machines

How to troubleshoot domain join issues

How enterprise environments manage user computers

Troubleshooting I Practiced

Incorrect DNS configuration

Domain join failure

Credential authentication issues

Group Policy not applying
